---
layout: post
title: "Apple Sucks"
---

       		
<p>A couple weeks ago, I spent some time making <a href="http://www.snorp.net/log/tangerine">Tangerine</a> work on Windows.  After I got it working, I started looking into creating an installer and all that stuff.  <a href="http://www.abock.org">Aaron</a> recommended <a href="http://www.jrsoftware.org/isinfo.php">Inno Setup</a>, so I got that and went to work.  I pretty quickly had a basic package working, but it needed to handle installing the various dependencies&nbsp;still.</p>
<p>Microsoft has a neat little bootstrapping utility which you can include in your installer to make sure various components (such as .<span class="caps">NET</span> 2.0) are installed, so that bit was&nbsp;easy.</p>
<p>The other dependency it needed to install was Apple&#8217;s <a href="http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/bonjour/">Bonjour</a>, so I start poking around on Apple&#8217;s site to see if they have some kind of cute installer for it.  I discover that they do, but they require you to get some kind of <a href="http://developer.apple.com/softwarelicensing/agreements/pdf/bonjour4wincore.pdf">license</a> from Apple.  Ok, how bad could it be?  I start to look through it.  There is the normal legal crap, blah blah blah, then I hit the real requirements.  I am not a lawyer, but my understanding is that I would need to do the following things in order to distribute my Bonjour-using application (not just their&nbsp;installer):</p>
<ul>
<li>Provide Apple with 2 samples of the application, on physical media, delivered to them 4 weeks before each&nbsp;release.</li>
<li>Provide quarterly reports on the number of Bonjour copies distributed in the previous&nbsp;quarter.</li>
<li>Use the Bonjour logo on any manuals included with the&nbsp;application</li>
</ul>
<p>I am sure a more astute reader could probably find more nastiness.  No wonder there aren&#8217;t any Windows apps out there using Bonjour.  If Apple really doesn&#8217;t want people to use it, why don&#8217;t they just come out and say it?  We need to port <a href="http://www.avahi.org">Avahi</a> to Windows and crush them into&nbsp;obsolescence.</p>
<p><b>Update:</b> <a href="http://www.tieguy.org">Luis</a> has added that they can also change the software or license at any point without warning and force me to use that.&nbsp;Nasty.</p>


   		
